[Pages] Adds r2 static asset tutorial (#15612)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/tutorials/use-r2-as-static-asset-storage-for-pages/index.md

---
updated: 2024-07-15
difficulty: Beginner
content_type: 📝 Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Use R2 As Static Asset Storage For Your Pages App

> products: [R2]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
products: [R2]
tags: [Hono]
```

---
updated: 2024-07-15
difficulty: Beginner
content_type: 📝 Tutorial
pcx_content_type: tutorial

> title: Use R2 As Static Asset Storage For Your Pages App

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Use R2 As static asset storage for your Pages app
```

products: [R2]
tags: [Hono]
---

> # Use R2 As Static Asset Storage For Your Pages App

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Use R2 as static asset storage for your Pages app
```

{{<tutorial-date-info>}}

> This tutorial will teach you how to use [R2](/r2/) as a static asset bucket for your [Pages](/pages/) app. This is especially helpful if you're hitting the [file limit on Pages](/pages/platform/limits/#files).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This tutorial will teach you how to use [R2](/r2/) as a static asset bucket for your [Pages](/pages/) app. This is especially helpful if you're hitting the [file limit on Pages](/pages/platform/limits/#files) or the [max file size limit](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/limits/#file-size).
```

> This tutorial will teach you how to use [R2](/r2/) as a static asset bucket for your [Pages](/pages/) app. This is especially helpful if you're hitting the [file limit on Pages](/pages/platform/limits/#files) or the [max file size limit](/pages/platform/limits/#file-size).

Author: ```suggestion
This tutorial will teach you how to use [R2](/r2/) as a static asset bucket for your [Pages](/pages/) app. This is especially helpful if you're hitting the [file limit](/pages/platform/limits/#files) or the [max file size limit](/pages/platform/limits/#file-size) on Pages.
```

> This tutorial will teach you how to use [R2](/r2/) as a static asset bucket for your [Pages](/pages/) app. This is especially helpful if you're hitting the [file limit on Pages](/pages/platform/limits/#files) or the [max file size limit](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/platform/limits/#file-size).

Author: ```suggestion
This tutorial will teach you how to use [R2](/r2/) as a static asset bucket for your [Pages](/pages/) app. This is especially helpful if you're hitting the [file limit on Pages](/pages/platform/limits/#files) or the [max file size limit](/pages/platform/limits/#file-size).
```

> To illustrate how this is done, we'll build a simple hello-world app with [Hono](https://hono.dev/), and host it's static assets (i.e images and JavaScript libraries) in an R2 bucket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To illustrate how this is done, we will build a simple hello-world app with [Hono](https://hono.dev/), and host its static assets (such as images and JavaScript libraries) in an R2 bucket.
```

## Create an R2 bucket

> Let's begin by creating an R2 bucket to store the static assets. A new bucket can be created through the dashboard, or via Wrangler.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Begin by creating an R2 bucket to store the static assets. A new bucket can be created through the dashboard or via Wrangler.
```

# i.e
# npx wrangler r2 object put static-assets/confetti.js -f ~/Downloads/confetti.js
```

## Create a Pages app

To create a Pages app with Hono, open a terminal window and run the following command. Select `cloudflare-pages` to use the Pages starter template, and then answer the prompts:

```sh
$ npm create hono@latest <app_name>
# i.e
# npm create hono@latest my-app
```

In the project folder, open `wrangler.toml` and add a binding to the R2 bucket created earlier. The `bucket_name` should be the exact name of the bucket you created in the previous section, while `binding` is a custom name to refer to the resource:

```toml
[[r2_buckets]]
binding = "STATIC_ASSETS"
bucket_name = "static-assets"
```

{{<Aside type="note">}}
Note: The keyword `ASSETS` is reserved and cannot be used as a resource binding.
{{</Aside>}}

Next, open `index.tsx` and add a type definition for the R2 bucket binding. Then, add an `assets` route to fetch and return a given asset from R2. And finally, modify the rendered HTML to return an image and a script fetched from the R2 bucket:

```ts
---
filename: index.tsx
highlight: [4-6, 8, 12-17, 21, 23-26]
---
import { Hono } from "hono";

> import { renderer } from "./renderer";

Reviewer 3: Where does this come from? Is this something that comes with the template? If so, we should call it out somewhere

Author: Do you mean renderer? It's from the Hono-Pages starter template https://hono.dev/docs/getting-started/cloudflare-pages

Reviewer 3: We should note that. Importing things that aren't mentioned in the doc just leads to confusion

Author: Did you read the tutorial? It was mentioned a number of times that it's a Pages app built with Hono

type Bindings = {
  STATIC_ASSETS: R2Bucket;
};

const app = new Hono<{ Bindings: Bindings }>();

app.use(renderer);

app.get("/assets/*", async (c) => {
  const path = c.req.path.replace("/assets/", "");
  const asset = await c.env.STATIC_ASSETS.get(path);
  if (!asset) return new Response(null, { status: 404 });
  return new Response(asset.body);
});

> app.get("/", (c) => {

Reviewer 3: this should really be served by Pages, right now this is just a Worker there's no actual Pages usage
We should just serve /assets/ through a Function and else serve Pages

Author: Yup, this is Pages, but with Hono

Reviewer 3: We aren't serving anything from Pages though. We should show this in use with Pages + Function
Right now, the Function handles everything, it's essentially just a Workers project

and the aim to solve here is the case where most things are handled in Pages but the large images or excess whatever is handled by a Worker

Author: The example was intentionally kept simple to focus the readers' attention on the R2 piece. There are myriad ways to build a Pages app (with no JS, with _worker.js, with functions, and then with all the supported JS UI libraries) which isn't the focus of this tutorial. The example in this tutorial has the UI rendered in JS and it's also a valid way to build a Pages app

Again the focus here is on R2. The tutorial shows the viewer how to bind to R2 and create a custom route that fetches and returns static assets from R2. It's simple and direct enough that a reader should be able to adapt the concepts to their specific implementation of Pages

As always feel free to raise a PR with an example you feel does a better job. Thanks

  return c.render(
    <>
      <h1>Hello!</h1>
      <img src="/assets/images/cat1.jpg" width="300" />
      <script src="/assets/confetti.js"></script>
      <script>setTimeout(confetti, 500);</script>

>     </>,

Author: Thanks, updated the difficulty level https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-docs/pull/15677

>     </>,

Reviewer 4: Wouldn’t it make more sense to keep this as a beginner tutorial and just return an html string or something, instead of introducing a brand new concept here?

>     </>,

Author: Hi Cherry, the example has been completely updated here https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-docs/pull/15799

  );
});

export default app;
```

## Deploy your app

> After saving `index.tsx` , open a new terminal window in run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After saving `index.tsx` , open a new terminal window and run:
```

```sh
$ npm run deploy
```

> Once deployed, your Pages app can pull and serve content from your R2 bucket.

Author: Hi Cherry, it's a simple Pages app built with Hono

> Once deployed, your Pages app can pull and serve content from your R2 bucket.

Reviewer 4: Can you please describe exactly what makes this a Pages app? It’s not using any Pages features - no asset serving, header overrides, _redirects, _routes, etc. so calling it Pages is just confusing to end-users.
